# Dose-Response_overwiew

Code for the manuscript 'Tight vs. Loose Coupling in Climate and Society Systems'

Enlarged and improved efforts to measure climate adaptation in resource systems are needed to both better understand current sensitivities and to project future climate impacts. We approach this by defining the pattern and strength of coupling between climate and resource production in the contiguous United States (CONUS) revealed by dose-response (D-R) curves derived from matched climate and production data, including where resource systems allow for case-control design across varying, multi-year climate epochs matched to in situ resource production variations. We find especially steep D-R curves for streamflow in the heavily managed Colorado River system reflecting tightening of demand and supply worsened by recent drought widely thought to be intensified by climate warming. A steep relationship between summer temperature and electricity consumption in the southern states shows the rise of space cooling and presages larger demand increases per unit of warming there than elsewhere in the CONUS. Steepening of the D-R curve for non-irrigated crop yields above current mean temperatures indicates a growing vulnerability in food systems. While this study was not aimed explicitly at projecting climate impacts to a warmer future, some of the dose-response curves do offer a glimpse of resource conditions in an altered climate. For example, extrapolation would suggest that places in cooler climates will exhibit both increased electricity use with warming but also a steepening response curve, an effect that might have implications for replacing fossil fuels with renewable sources of electricity.
